# Contributing

Please see our [community docs on contributing](https://shabados.com/docs/community/contributing).

This document is for developers or programmers contributing to source code. If you're interested in contributing a different way, please see the link above.

## Project Structure

This project follows a standard Ruby gem structure. Here's a brief overview of the main directories and files:

- `lib/`: Contains the main source code for the GurmukhiUtils gem.
  - `gurmukhi_utils.rb`: The main entry point for the gem. This file requires all other necessary files.
  - `<feature>.rb` files: Each additional file in this directory represents a specific feature/module of the gem.
- `spec/`: Contains the RSpec test files for the gem. Test files should be placed in this directory, following the naming convention `<feature>_spec.rb`.
- `Gemfile`: Specifies the gem dependencies for development and testing.
- `Gemfile.lock`: Generated by Bundler, this file contains the exact gem versions and their dependencies used in the project.
- `gurmukhi_utils.gemspec`: The gem specification file, which provides information about the gem. We need this to publish and release the gem.

## Development

- Install [Mise](https://mise.jdx.dev/)
- Run `mise install` to install the correct version of ruby + bundler. Ensure you have the [required dependencies installed.](https://github.com/rbenv/ruby-build/wiki#suggested-build-environment)
- Run `bundle install` to install the project dependencies.

## Testing

- Local tests are located in the ruby folder.
- The tests run against the root gurmukhi-utils `test` folder.
- The test runner is [`minitest`](https://github.com/minitest/minitest).
- Run tests by setting the ruby folder as your current working directory in the terminal and then executing `rake test`.

## Adding New Features to `GurmukhiUtils`

To add a new feature to GurmukhiUtils, follow these steps:

**Step 1.**

Create a new file in the `lib/` directory for the new feature, and place the new functionality within the `GurmukhiUtils` module.

For example, if you want to create an `ascii` method, create a new file called `ascii.rb`:

```ruby
# lib/ascii.rb

module GurmukhiUtils
  def self.helpers
    # ...
  end

  def self.other_methods
    # ...
  end

  def self.ascii
    # ...
  end
end
```

**Step 2.**

Update the `lib/gurmukhi_utils.rb` file to require the new feature file using require_relative:

```ruby
# lib/gurmukhi_utils.rb

require_relative 'gurmukhi_utils/version'
require_relative 'unicode'
require_relative 'ascii' # Add this line for the new feature
```

**Step 3.**

Test the feature

Write tests for the new feature in the `spec` directory.

You can also use `irb` and do:

```ruby
001 > require_relative "lib/gurmukhi_utils"
 => true
002 > GurmukhiUtils.ascii("...")
 => "..."
```

## Thank you

Your contributions to open source, large or small, make great projects like this possible. Thank you for taking the time to participate in this project.
